Last updated: 25 June 2012

This directory contains Python scripts for generating C++
computational kernels, in particular sparse matrix kernels such as
sparse matrix-(multi)vector multiply and sparse triangular solve.  The
kernels are local, meaning that they operate within a single process
and do not use MPI to communicate.  For now, we only implement
sequential kernels, but we may choose to add (shared-memory) parallel
kernels in the future.

* SparseTriSolve.py

Code generator for local sequential sparse matrix-(multi)vector
multiply (SpMV).  This Python script generates templated C++ code for
many different variants of SpMV for sparse matrices stored in
compressed sparse row (CSR) or compressed sparse column (CSC) format,
and dense input and output (multi)vectors stored in either
column-major or row-major layout.

The typical use case of the code is to generate two header files: one
of declarations, and the other of definitions.  To do this, just run
it as a script:

$ python SparseMatVec.py

That will create the two header files in the current working
directory.  You can also import the SparseMatVec module from Python
and use specific functions there.  Read the module's on-line
documentation for more details.

* SparseTriSolve.py

Code generator for local sequential sparse triangular solve.  This
Python script generates templated C++ code for many different variants
of sparse triangular solve for sparse matrices stored in compressed
sparse row (CSR) or compressed sparse column (CSC) format, and dense
input and output (multi)vectors stored in either column-major or
row-major layout.

The typical use case of the code is to generate two header files: one
of declarations, and the other of definitions.  To do this, just run
it as a script:

$ python SparseTriSolve.py

That will create the two header files in the current working
directory.  You can also import the SparseTriSolve module from Python
and use specific functions there.  Read the module's on-line
documentation for more details.

* attic/

Directory of older, deprecated scripts, such as
sparse_triangular_solve.py.  I keep these around to mine for scraps of
Python code, but there is no guarantee that they will run without
errors or that they will generate correct or efficient code.

TODO: 

* Wouldn't it be nice if we could write kernels in a Python-like
  pseudocode, and generate C++ code from them?  (We could use Python's
  ast module for that.)

